In this video we're going to take a look at another very important concept.
It's a very small and simple concept but it is one of the cornerstones of modern deep learning.
So it's really important that you understand it.
And it's such a simple concept but it's very counterintuitive.
So people find it difficult to understand.
So we're going to motivate this visually.
Let's take a look at this image over there.
Let's say we're trying to drain the machine to recognize the images of bananas.
You may show it.
Many banana images.
But the problem is that machines have very good memory.
They can simply memorize the pixel values.
And if you show it this image again it can simply recall from memory that this is a banana without having
to actually what is called learning.
No learning is going to be performed and the machine can simply memorize this.
So that is called all fitting.
What we want to do instead is to reduce this aspect of overweighting by hiding some of the information
from the machine.
So for instance we're not going to show the machine this image should.
We're going to show it this image.
And so some of the portions have been blocked out lights are blacked out.
So when the machine gets this piece of information now it must somehow fill in the blanks over here.
And that would require learning on the machines part if in the future we showed the complete image these
pixels are going to be new for it and the machine would really had have to learn something in order
to recognize that this image is the same as this image.
So this concept of blacking out or blocking out some pieces of information before giving them to some
layer in the machine is called a dropout rate.
So we drop out some of the pieces of information and the way we do that is simply when you have one
layers output coming out you said some of the values to zero.
So something setting the values to zero essentially turns it into a black portion for the machine.
So machine cannot learn from those specific pixels.
And in order to really generalize the learning the machine has to understand the underlying concept
of what a banana looks like.
So it has to understand the underlying Ground Truth and tact helps us achieve much better results.
So drop out is one of those aspects which is really easy to implement.
It's really easy to understand once you get the intuition behind it.
And once you do understand it will be a really powerful tool to have on your side.
And how do you use it as before get us to the rescue.
We have some catastrophic layers import drop out.
We've done that.
And in your existing architecture wherever you want to do the drop out for instance we want to do a
drop out after this putting layer so we can simply go ahead and say model dot add and we say a dropout
dropout and then we give it the percentage of the pixels that we need dropped out.
So for instance we can say point two.
So for that 20 percent of all the pixels coming out of this layer are going to be set to zero.
So those are going to be dropped out and simply by that you help your machine generalize the results
from this to this to the machine would not be learning this portion or here and we can say that the
machine really is going to learn what the underlying architecture of a banana is before it can go ahead
and predict the future banana images.
So we can go ahead and go on this and you will notice then in this layer there is no change.
There are no parameters to learn.
So there are no parameters to learn in this droplet because no operation is being performed other than
simply setting 20 percent of all the values to zero.
So this is a very fast method of making you a machine really understand the concept by generalizing
it and reducing overfishing.
So this city is one of those things that you really want to understand and you really want to make sure
that you use it in your architecture because it really has to avoid the very general problem of overfishing.